[WIP] Website refactoring follow-up (#1114)
writethedocs/www: docs/organizer-guide/confs/website.rst

.. _conf-web-resources:

.. highlight:: yaml

> Conference websites

Reviewer: :heart: :100:

.. _conf-web-resources:

.. highlight:: yaml

Conference websites
===================

Each conference has a section of the website, which is part of the same

> repository as the main conference website. Many parts of the conference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
repository as the main community website. Many parts of the conference
```

Reviewer 2: The sentence currently reads: "Each conference has a section of the website, which is part of the same repository as the main conference website."

Usage of the word "conference" confuses me, so I went with a suggestion based on what seemed logical in my head. Our www repository has the main community website, and a directory for each conference, so that's what seemed to make sense. I fixed the typo ;)

websites are data-driven, like the generation of the schedule.

.. note::
    This documentation applies only for conferences from 2020 onwards.

File locations
--------------

The important locations of files are:

* ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-config.yaml`` contains the general config file
  for rendering a specific conference. This includes settings like the

>   conference dates, sponsors and ticket prices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  conference dates, sponsors, and ticket prices.
```

* ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-sessions.yaml`` contains the conference sessions,
  the main talks on the agenda. For each session, it includes things like the
  title and abstract, and name and other info for the speaker(s).
* ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-schedule.yaml`` contains the conference schedule.

>   This includes the talks, but also items like "Lunch".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This includes the talks, but also peripheral activities like lightning talks, meals, the outing, and social event.
```

* ``conf/<shortcode>/<year>/`` contains the RST files used for rendering the

>   conference website. Copy these over from the previous conference

Reviewer 2: This is the only list item where we ask the readers to do something. Since we are documenting the website workflow later, it's probably better to keep this list as a reference and clean out task-style content. It confused me and will probably confuse others...

  (chronologically, not the previous conference in the same location).
  You may need to update some reference to specific locations/years,

>   and keep an eye on any FIXME's or TODO's.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and keep an eye on any FIXMEs or TODOs.
```

> * ``include/conf/`` contains text snippets which are generally the same

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``include/conf/`` contains text snippets that are generally the same
```

  between conferences, or at least between conferences in the same location.
  Examples include the description of lightning talks, or the Portland hike.
* ``_templates/<year>/`` and ``_templates/include/`` contain HTML or RST

>   templates used in rendering the conference pages. This includes the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  templates used to render the conference pages. This includes the
```

  website design, navigation and snippets used in schedule rendering.

> The YAML files are validated using the schemas in ``_data/schema-*``.

Reviewer 2: Passive voice alert! Who/what is doing the validation? Is it something a human needs to do or is it automated?

> Typical conference workflow

Reviewer 2: Mega-passive-voice alert! We should rewrite this section to make it clear which tasks are done by humans and which ones are automated. We should use second-person voice for tasks that human do, and third-person for automated things, like "The RTD CI builds the website after you merge a PR"...

---------------------------

* The initial conference site is created, with ``flaglanding`` typically
  set to publish a simple landing page with the conference dates.

> * At some point, the content for the conference is filled in and verified,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* At some point before the full website launch, the content for the conference is filled in and verified,
```

Reviewer 2: We should probably have people review the activities in the conference to see if anything needs to be updated (mostly times/locations that aren't in variables and a quick skim of the team page and reusable snippets)

  like sponsorship prices. ``flaglanding`` is now switched off and remains off.
* As soon as tickets go on sale, ``flagticketsonsale`` is switched on.
* When the CFP opens, ``flagcfp`` is switched on. Once the CFP has closed,

>   it is switched off and remains off. The CFP details should be in the

Reviewer 2: "should" is a name of a fish ;) does this mean that the CFP details can be found in this file, or that people must add them to the file?

  general conference config file, under ``cfp``.
* When speakers are announced, ``flagspeakersannounced`` is switched on

>   and remains on. The sessions should be in the

Reviewer 2: "should" alert 2 (fix everywhere)

  ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-sessions.yaml`` file.
* When the schedule is ready, ``flaghasschedule`` is switched on and remains on.
  The schedule should be in the ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-schedule.yaml`` file.
* At some point the conference sells out. ``flagticketsonsale`` is switched off,
  ``flagsoldout`` is switched on.

> * During the conference, if live streaming is available, ``flaglivestreaming``

Reviewer 2: This needs to happen before the conference, not during, so that we can promote the live stream (1-2 weeks?)

  is switched on. It is switched off after the conference ends.
* After the conference ends, ``flagpostconf`` is switched on and remains on.
* When videos are published on the Write the Docs website, ``flagvideos``
  is switched on and remains on.

Each time the state is updated, check the top/bottom buttons to ensure they

> still fit. For example, once tickets have sold out, the button "buy a ticket"

Reviewer 2: Fit = text doesn't overrun? Can we state a character limit?

should be removed.

General conference config file
------------------------------

If you're setting up a new conference, the easiest may be to take a YAML
config file from the previous conference, and adjust it.

The items in the general conference config file are:

> * ``name``: the dynamic part of the name of the conference, e.g. ``Portland``

Reviewer 2: City name?

Author: Not always, for Australia this would be "Australia".

  for Write the Docs Portland.
* ``shortcode``: the shortcode as used in file paths, config names, and other
  references to the conference, together with the year. Currently used are
  ``portland``, ``prague``, and ``australia``.
* ``year``: the conference year, e.g. ``2020``.

> * ``city``: the city for the conference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``city``: the city for the conference, such as "Portland" or "Prague". For Australia, use "Australia".
```

> * ``local_area``: the state or country for the conference.

Reviewer 2: For example, "Oregon" or "Czech Repubilc"? Does this need to be properly capitalized?

* ``area``: the wider area for the conference. Currently used are
  ``North America``, ``Europe``, and ``Australia``.
* ``area_adj``: the adjective form of the area, e.g. ``Australian``.

> * ``tz``: the timezone the conference is located in.

Reviewer 2: Format?

* ``email``: general contact email for the conference.
* ``color``: the accent color for conference branding, e.g. ``blue`` for 2020.

> * ``photos.default``: the default header image.

Reviewer 2: How do we choose the picture? Is that OOS for this role?

Author: I'd say it's out of scope. We can add that later if we have a process for it.

* ``buttons.top`` and ``buttons.bottom``: the buttons highlighted on the top
  and bottom of the conference pages. Each button has two keys: ``text`` for
  the button text and ``link`` or ``link_absolute`` for a site-relative or
  an absolute link for the button. These tend to change as the conference
  goes through different stages, e.g. a button to submit a talk or watch the
  live stream. Top and bottom are often identical. Example::

    buttons:
      top:
         - text: Sponsor the conference
           link: /sponsors/prospectus

>          - text: Submit a Talk

Reviewer 2: Is capitalization important?

Author: Maybe. This is the historical pattern. In the interface they are shown all-caps, but I'm not sure whether capitalisation matters for screen readers.

           link: /cfp
      bottom:
         - text: Sponsor the conference
           link: /sponsors/prospectus
         - text: Submit a Talk
           link: /cfp

* ``tickets``: the conference ticket prices. The keys are fixed and referred
  to in other places. Example::

    tickets:
      corporate:
        price: $500
      independent:
        price: $275
      student:
        price: $100

> * ``sponsorship``: the conference sponsorship prices. The keys are fixed and

Reviewer 2: what does "fixed" mean? the amounts for tix/sponsorships change between conferences and years sometimes, but it's something that needs to be decided by consensus.

  referred to in other places. Example::

    sponsorship:
      first_draft:
        price: $900
      second_draft:
        price: $2,500
      publisher:
        price: $5,000
      patron:
        price: $9,500
      keystone:
        price: $17,000

* ``sponsors``: confirmed conference sponsors, using the same keys as the
  pricing. Each sponsor has a name and a link to their website. Their logo
  should be stored in ``_static/img/sponsors/``. Example::

    sponsors:
      keystone:
      patron:
        # logo should be in _static/img/sponsors/patron-sponsor.jpg/png
        - name: patron-sponsor
          link: http://www.example.com
      publisher:
      second:
      first:
      media:
        - name: media-sponsor-one
          link: http://www.example.com

* ``date``: the conference dates and days. Contains:
    * ``main``: the human readable conference dates and location,
      e.g. ``"**May 3-5, 2020, in Portland, Oregon**"``.
    * ``short``: the short human readable dates, e.g. ``May 3-5, 2020``.

>     * ``tickets_live``: a rough human readable date when tickets go on sale,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * ``tickets_live``: a human readable date to indicate the month when tickets go on sale,
```

      e.g. ``January 2020``.
    * ``month``: the month in which the conference is held, e.g. ``May``.
    * ``total_talk_days``: the number of days that have talks, e.g. ``2``.
      Used to automatically read the schedule.
    * ``day_one``, ``day_two``, etc. These are actually events, not days. Each "day" has:
        * ``event``: the name of the event, like ``Hike``, ``Writing Day`` or
          ``Main Conference``.
        * ``date``: the short human readable date, e.g. ``May 2`` or
          ``May 4-5``.
        * ``summary``: a human readable summary of the event that day.
        * ``icon``: the icon used for this event, e.g. ``hike`` or
          ``conference``.
        * ``dotw``: the day(s) of the week for this event, e.g. ``Saturday``
          or ``Monday/Tuesday``.
* ``about``: general conference background. Contains:
    * ``attendees``: the number of attendees.
    * ``summary``: a summary text for the conference.
    * ``venue``: a human readable textual description of the venue location.
    * ``photos``: a link to the conference photos (typically on Flickr).
    * ``mainroom``: the name of the main room.
    * ``unconfroom``: the name of the unconference room.

>     * ``projector_ratio``: the ratio for the projector, e.g. ``16:9``.

Reviewer 2: this seems like it should belong in another section, do we have/can we make a speaker section, or add this to the CFP?

Author: I'm reluctant to add a section for 1 config item, CFP also doesn't feel like it covers it? I'm inclined to keep it where it is.

* ``cfp``: call for papers details. Contains:
    * ``url``: the URL to a google form with the CFP.
    * ``ends``: a human readable date of when the CFP ends,
      e.g. ``31 January, 2020``.
    * ``notification``: a human readable date of when accepted speakers
      will be notified.

> * ``job_fair.location``: a description of the location of the job fair.

Reviewer 2: Example? Is this just a room name? Maybe move this to the section that shows the other rooms....

> Then, there are a number of true/false flags. Some of these don't change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The file also includes a few true/false flags. Some of these don't change
```

as the conference is being planned. These are:

* ``flaghashike``: does the conference have a hike?
* ``flaghasboat``: does the conference have a boat ride?
* ``flagwelcomewagon``: does the conference have a welcome wagon?

Others will change over time:

* ``flaglanding``: is the conference website only a landing page?
  Typically used for an early announcement of conference dates.
* ``flagticketsonsale``: are tickets on sale at this time?
* ``flagsoldout``: is the conference sold out?
* ``flagcfp``: is the CFP currently open?
* ``flagspeakersannounced``: have speakers been announced?
  This flag requires the ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-sessions.yaml``
  file to exist, which lists the speakers/sessions.
* ``flaghasschedule``: is the schedule ready?
  This flag requires the``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-schedule.yaml``
  file to exist, which contains the schedule.

> * ``flaglivestreaming``: is a live stream currently running?

Reviewer 2: probably should change this to "is a live stream available", since the page needs to go live before we start the conf..

* ``flagpostconf``: has the conference ended?
* ``flagvideos``: are the conference videos published?

Sessions file
-------------

> The sessions file contains the conference sessions, i.e. the talks.

Reviewer 2: Maybe use path/filename instead of just "sessions" file

Each talk has the following attributes:

* ``title``: title of the talk
* ``abstract``: talk abstract

> * ``slug``: talk slug - referenced in the schedule.Typically, the slug is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``slug``: talk slug - referenced in the schedule. Typically, the slug is
```

>   a slugified version of the title, followed by the slugified speaker name.

Reviewer 2: slugified? what is that?

Author: It's essentially translating the title into lowercase, removing any non-letters, replacing spaces by dashes. It's a fairly widely used term, but there is no universally accepted meaning. I can link to something like https://blog.tersmitten.nl/slugify/ ?

> * ``series``: the conference series, used for videos, e.g. ``Write the Docs PORTLAND``

Reviewer 2: 1 - why is PORTLAND all-caps?
2 - what does series mean? is it referring to which conference it belongs to?

Author: 1 - historical reasons, something we should pick up when improving the video system.
2 - I think so? But all the video stuff is a bit misty.

* ``series_slug``: the slug of the series, used for videos
* ``year``: the year the talk was given, used for videos
* ``youtubeId``: the Youtube ID of the talk video, if published already
* ``speakers``: the speaker(s) for the talk, in a list of speakers with keys:

>     * ``name``: name of the speaker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * ``name``: full name of the speaker
```

    * ``slug``: slug of the speaker
    * ``twitter``: Twitter username
    * ``website``: URL of the speaker's website

Schedule file
-------------

The schedule file contains the conference schedule. This is a mix of conference
talks, and other agenda items like "Switch Speakers" or "Lunch Break".

If you're writing a new conference schedule, it may be easier to start from
the schedule file of the same conference as last year, as they tend to be
quite similar.

> For conferences with a writing day, there must be a ``writing_day`` key. Then,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For conferences with a writing day, you must add a ``writing_day`` key. Then,
```

Reviewer 2: where do you add this key to?

Reviewer 2: Omg I see what "key" means. Maybe we can define "key" somewhere, I don't see the term used so much so other mortals might need this clarified.

> a schedule for each main conference day, in the form of ``day1``, ``day2``,

Reviewer 2: in one of the previous files, "day1" and so on is used to indicate whatever days, so for example day 1 would be the hike/boat, but in the schedule file day1 means day 1 of talks and things. This might cause some confusion, not sure how we can fix this... maybe standardize on the day numbering so that we all know what day 1 means everywhere?

Author: This is difficult, in part due to legacy, but I will change the schedule, which is still very new, to say "talks-day1" etc. That'll reduce some of the confusion.

and more if needed. The number of days should match ``date.total_talk_days``
from the general config file.

Within each day, each item must have a ``time``, which is free text, so it
can be in 12 hour or 24 hour time, and either a ``title`` or a ``slug``.
A title is used for free text schedule items, like "Snack Break". A slug is
used for conference talks, where the slug must match the slug of a session
in the ``_data/<shortcode>-<year>-sessions.yaml`` file.

A schedule file for a very brief conference could look like::

    writing_day:
      - time: '8:00'
        title: Doors Open, Breakfast Served
      - time: '5:00'
        title: End of Writing Day

    day1:
      - time: '8:00'
        title: Doors Open, Breakfast Served
      - time: '9:40'
        title: "<b>Unconference Starts (Lola's Room)</b>"
      - time: '9:40'

>         slug: any-friend-of-the-docs-is-a-friend-of-mine-cultivating-a-community-of-documentation-advocates-heather-stenson

Reviewer 2: is this a copy-paste operation?

Author: The slugs are, yes. The file as a whole too, as a start, because we have almost identical schedules each year per conference. Clarified that elsewhere.
